[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Called the San Luis Valley,
it sits at over 8,000 feet
above sea level.
The valley has been
known for a long time
to be a place where many
strange events occur.
It has been rumored
that there are
portals to other
dimensions in the valley.
What's going on in
this mysterious valley?
>> The San Luis Valley is
in south-central Colorado.
And it actually,
geologically, it
extends down to
Taos, New Mexico.
So it does actually go below
the Colorado, New Mexico border.
However, the Colorado portion
is known as the San Luis Valley.
The lower portion is
not, even though it is
part of the same valley system.
>> When I say window area, I
mean a place that seems to have
a preponderance of paranormal
activity, be it UFOs, Bigfoot,
poltergeist activity, whatever.
And often, strangely
enough-- and a lot
of people probably watching
know this-- all those things
that once.
>> We describe it as the
playground of the paranormal
because not only are the
deposits just enormously vast
there, but you have daily
nonstop paranormal activity
occurring.
>> There's a lot
that's unusual there.
And the geophysical
properties, I think,
is one of the most
important things to look at.
It's one of the few
areas where you'll
have large pockets of
magnetic energy, maximum field
strength, and minimum
field strength
right next to one another.
And when you have that
close proximity of minimum
and maximum field
strength, it sets up
vortices of
electromagnetic energy.
And where you have the
minimum intensity areas,
you also have
intermittent layers
of clay, sand, and water.
And that creates a
perfect natural battery.
So you have a variety of
gravitic lows close proximity
of field strength.
>> Portals are actually
different areas.
They're also
described as vortexes.
Most of the portals that
we've gone to examine
are all in places that the
indigenous people hold sacred.
There's always an oral history
in those indigenous tribes,
some strange
happenings going on.
We believe that what's
causing the portals, which
are a tear in the electric
membrane that separates
dimensions, are
vast quartz crystal
deposits underneath
the topography,
that these deposits actually
generate electromagnetic fields
so strong that they can
cause a momentary rip
or tear in that membrane.
And when you get
that tear occurring,
you have momentary interaction
between dimensions.
And we describe that
as being paranormal.
>> And that's just the
tip of the iceberg on some
of the things that go on there.
As a result of
the location, it's
the only area in North America
where three regional groups
of Indians overlapped.
The Great Plains
Indians would go there
during the summer, the Great
Basin Indians, the nomadic Ute,
for instance, and the
Kiowa and the Comanche.
And those 13 different
tribes ended up
using the valley and the
southwestern Indians.
Of course, the Navajo, the
Diné people, the Apache,
and even the Hopi would
make vision quests up there.
So it's the only spot
in America that we
can say that three
regional groups overlapped.
It's so isolated.
You have to understand it's the
world's largest alpine valley.
It's completely surrounded
and ringed by mountains.
It's roughly football-shaped.
You have the Sangre de Cristo,
the longest continuous mountain
range in North America, going
up the east side, which is also
the largest volcanic thrust
fault in the interior
of the United States.
It goes from the Gulf
of Mexico to Leadville.
And it follows the Sangres,
or the middle portion of it.
And then, of course,
the San Juan Mountains
are on the west side.
And it's completely
surrounded by mountains.
And interestingly
enough, it's radar
invisible below 18,000 feet.
There's no monitoring
of the airspace
below that particular altitude.
I mean, pretty much any type
of paranormal phenomenon
that you can stick
your finger on
has occurred there, including
crop circles in the early '70s.
>> It's the most
significant factors--
four different indigenous tribes
that describe the San Luis
Valley as being
their garden of Eden,
the holiest mountain
there being Mount Blanca,
which is a 14,000-foot
mountain peak,
which some of the Indians claim
actually have crystal skulls
buried on, which is fascinating.
But it was in that
valley where they
described what's
called the sipapu,
or the place of emergence.
This was a hole in the
ground that they literally
crawled up into this existence.
And while they were
down there, they
claimed the Ant People
were taking care of them.
>> It's interesting.
The San Luis Valley, which
is where Crestone is,
for about 20 years, we've
done 85 expeditions there.
And dating back certainly
to Native American times
and old ranchers from
the 18th, early 19th,
they reported seeing unusual
phenomena and objects that
come up out of the
Earth and go into space
and all kinds of things.
Now when I first started going
there in '93, 24 years ago,
we immediately had amazing
contact experiences.
And I also noticed that there
was a magnetic field anomaly
there, where the delta, the
change in magnetic field
is very dramatic in that area.
And that seems to have some
effect on facilitating,
or, at least, having
expressed that we're
seeing it with the naked eye,
extraterrestrial phenomenon.
And so there's also the
third largest aquifer
in North America there,
underneath this valley.
And there is a great
deal of evidence
that there is an ancient ET
presence within the aquifer.
And they're
transdimensional ETs.
They can come in and out.
And we have an amazing
photograph of one
coming out right in front of
us and shooting straight up
and stopping.
This is amazing photograph.
>> Wherever you find the largest
quartz crystal deposits--
let's take, for example,
Sedona, Arizona--
the mountain ranges
there, and you
study aero electromagnetic
mapping of the topography, what
you find is that the mountains
themselves literally exhibit
electromagnetic fields that
are up to 500 times more
powerful than the
surrounding countryside.
And that's what it takes to
cause a rip in that membrane
and get that interdimensional
activity to occur.
One of the places where that
occurs almost on a daily basis
is the San Luis Valley.
>> Because of the conditions
that you find there,
you'll occasionally see
piezoelectric discharges from
the Sangres.
The Sangres are filled
with negative spaces
where quartz,
obviously, has grown.
And there's some rumors even
that Nikola Tesla came there
at one point to
investigate the discharging
of the piezoelectric energy.
I have actually seen it
on a couple of occasions
late at night, super cold
winter nights with very
low single digit humidity.
And you'll see these
flashes of light
that come out of the mountains
and go up into the air.
And they separate
from the mountain
and go up into the air.
And on two occasions,
I've seen it.
It's really rare,
but it does occur.
>> And so what you have is a
scenario by which there are
areas like this where the fields
being generated are so powerful
that they're causing this
non-stop interaction with
another dimension.
And the only thing
that can explain
the wide array of paranormal
activity taking place
is the fact that
these fields exist
because they exist in a
very small geographic area
to one another.
Now today, it's almost
like the military slowly
buying up these areas
where these portals exist.
And they're placing a guard
at the door of each one.
>> The valley first came
into prominence in the 1960s,
when the first animal
mutilations occurred there.
All through the
1960s, '70s, and '80s,
hundreds of cows and horses
were discovered mutilated
all through the valley.
What was going on with this?
>> So it's interesting.
So some of the
animal mutilations
that started there were counter
intelligence operations.
Because what you find is that
wherever there is a genuine ET
phenomenon, the intelligence
community will try to put
on top of it their take on it.
And there's a national
security agency guy
who used to be the
right hand to General
Odom, the head of the
National Security Agency,
did this man analyze the
Marilyn Monroe document for us.
And he says we call it DDT.
You set up a decoy.
It becomes a distraction and
then trashes the whole subject.
And he says we know very well
how to run a DDT operation.
And so wherever there is this ET
phenomenon that's ancient Earth
events, you will find that the
intelligence community will
often move in with
counterintelligence operations
and do things that set people
off the scent of the real.
In other words, they
spread a lot of fool's gold
along around so you don't
find the gold nugget.
And I think that's why
that started there.
>> The cattle thing is my least
favorite thing to investigate.
I'm very sensitive to
the welfare of animals
and the sanctity of all life.
But what's happening to
these poor, poor animals?
Somebody has going to be
helping these ranchers,
and nobody was helping them.
Law enforcement
couldn't do anything.
You know, there was no
scientific organizations
that were interested in it.
But because of the
amount of aerial activity
we are experiencing, we
had major waves of UFOs
from end of '92 all
the way to almost '99.
So about a six,
seven-year period,
there were hundreds and hundreds
and hundreds of sightings.
You know, Linda Howe
and Chuck Zukowski
and other investigators
are very intrigued
by the sensational side of this,
which only represents 2% to 5%
of the data.
I think it's going
to be quasi military.
I think it's multinational.
I think it's more of like along
the lines of a militarized CDC
or NIH, the Centers
for Disease Control
or the National
Institutes of Health.
There may be some sort of
secret clandestine branch of one
of those two
organizations or one
we don't even know about that's
monitoring the environment.
And they're very, very
good at what they do.
There's been a number of cases
where veterinary pathologists,
world class veterinary
pathologists-- and I
don't use that term lightly.
John Waterhouse
actually at Iowa State,
he took a calf that was freshly
mutilated and discovered,
quickly brought it
to the forensic lab
in the veterinary
college, and side
by side, duplicated the
cuts that were on the calf.
He was able to do them all.
But he said whoever did the
ones that got the tongue out,
he said, man, whoever that
was, was really talented.
I am a world class surgeon.
And he actually even used that.
And he said, if somebody
could duplicate what I did,
these are really seasoned
professionals doing this.
I said, in your viewpoint,
could any of this stuff not
been done by humans?
And he said no.
He said, however, you have to
know exactly what you're doing.
You have to be able
do it very quickly.
And you have to be an
expert veterinarian
and know anatomy
to the point where
you can do it in the dark.
>> Dr. Altshuler, who was
the only bona fide scientist
in the early days
who looked into this,
who was a very good
friend of mine,
did the original Snippy the
Horse case in Colorado back
in the '60s, late '60s.
He looked into this and
he came to the conclusion
that they were paramilitary
human operations masquerading
as alien that were doing this
for their psychological warfare
value, but also to test
out systems and test
human response, media
and human response.
Now, interestingly, they were
also getting raw materials
for some of their
underground bases and labs,
where they were taking certain
parts of the animal that
had a high mitotic
index, meaning
that the cells
reproduce quickly, like
the tongue, the rectum, the
sex organs, and what have you,
for things they were
doing that were hideous
experiments in
underground facilities.
>> Towering over the San
Luis Valley is Mount Blanca.
This is the fourth highest
mountain in Colorado.
The mountain, which frequently
is snow-covered all year long,
is one of the most
sacred mountains
to the local Native Americans.
Right below Mount Blanca is the
Sand Dunes National Monument.
The Sand Dunes Monument
is one of the largest sand
dunes in the Americas.
Today, there are rumors
swirling that there's
a base of some kind
inside the mountain.
Some say it's a military base.
Others say it's alien.
Either way, Mount Blanca
has so many UFO sightings
that there's even a UFO
watchtower, where viewers can
come and watch the mountain.
>> Sacred mountain of the east
to the Diné, Apache and Navajo,
Sisnaajini, it's a place
where all thought originates.
It's where creation occurs.
And then it goes around to the
north to Hesperus to the San
Francisco peaks in the west and
then Mount Taylor in the south.
Those are the four cardinal
mountains of the southwest.
Blanca is-- the
stories that I have
uncovered from all the way
back in the pioneer days
to just recently.
We've had Bigfoot reports.
We've had spectral
Indians attacking campers
around campfires, the old
King Ranch, the upper cabin.
A guy went by on
horseback, but he
would have had to been
on a horse 20 feet tall.
>> Now the other thing is that
the sacred mountain of the east
is Blanca peak.
And all the Native American
tribes would gather there.
We started going
there in '93, '94.
And we have a contact site
up in a remote location,
where we go into another
dimension, and ETs appear.
And I know for a fact that
there is an ancient ET presence
inside.
This is the, I think, second,
third, fourth highest peak
in Colorado is Blanca peak.
And there's also, on
the south side of it,
a man that had some land where
there was a medicine wheel.
And we did a CE5 there contact.
And this object came
out of the mountain.
And it was, like, a liquid blue.
And it came down and
wrapped around us.
And then a rectangular
box materialized.
A woman almost sat on it.
You could do such an
amazing series of things
just on the CSETI experience
and the San Luis Valley.
And so, for many years,
we've gone there.
And I think there's an
ancient presence in that area,
just like at Mount Shasta
and that the sacred mountain
of the east was a gathering
place where all the native
peoples, they did not fight.
And the bloodless valley
was the San Luis Valley
for the native peoples.
And it was because there
was an ancient connection
between these
interstellar civilizations
and early Native American
people of that area.
And it's still that energy,
that presence is still there.
Although there was an
eradication attempt, now back
some years ago, I
had an emergency call
from a helicopter
line operator, who
was called in on a mutual assist
on the eastern side of Blanca
peak, where there were
covert special forces that
were attempting to kill ETs
inside the mountain using nerve
agents or something like that.
And they had a mishap.
And some of their own people
were badly injured or killed.
And they were calling
in mutual assist
because he was running
the helicopter,
checking power lines.
This man, very credible
man, said he went in there.
That's what they were doing.
And we subsequently had
contact when we went there
with the ETs, who asked
that we do what we could
to get this attack stopped.
So I did a thing
at the Pentagon,
where I was trying to get
that operation stopped.
But yes, I have tremendous
information about that.
I was there personally.
>> Well, the helicopter pilot
that worked for the utility
company was flying,
checking the power lines.
And he was about ready to
fly back to the airport.
And he got an emergency
call from the military
from Fort Carson, saying, we've
had an accident on Blanca Peak.
We would need you to go
immediately there and evacuate
wounded soldiers.
And so he's-- whoa,
this is intense.
And the reason
why they call him,
he says because you know the
local weather patterns there.
That was the excuse,
the wind conditions.
So he flew over there, and
he's hovering over the site.
And he sees all these
guys, these troops
in a wilderness area.
What the heck?
They're doing maneuvers
in a wilderness area.
So, on the north side of Blanca.
And he radioed in
and said, what is
the nature of this emergency?
I forget how they
couched it, but it
had something to do with
the daughters of sarin.
Now, what is that?
He's saying, what
do you mean, sarin?
I'm not going to
bring somebody that's
been hit with a nerve
agent inside my helicopter.
Oh, you can just strap him to
your skids on your helicopter.
And he says, no way.
You guys are going
to have to get
your Black Hawks or your
Apaches to come get them
because I'm not going to do it.
>> So this was--
one of our objectives was
to try to stop the sort
of outrageous activities.
But the deep national security
rogue elements within Magic,
the Majority
Intelligence Committee--
it used to be
called Majestic 12.
It's not called that anymore.
There are ones that
are tremendously
rogue that do what
they want that don't
answer to any hierarchy.
And they will go places
where there is an ET presence
and try to, quote,
"eradicate" them,
even though they've been
there thousands, maybe
millions of years.
I think that Mount Shasta
is probably millions.
And so this is something of
very great concern to us.
And so we often do
expeditions to places
like that to have
another face of humanity
shown that's peaceful.
We do this deliberately.
We walk right into the
belly of the beast.
Now some people are kind
of appalled when I say,
well, yes, of course,
we're going to do this.
This is not something
for dilettantes.
We do this with a very
serious peace initiative.
I will say that if you go up to
Zapata Falls, the parking area,
and we remote
viewed the location
that if you get off the trail
off to the right and go up,
there's an area, before you
get to the falls on the right,
where we found a contact site
that's very easy to get to.
And you go up there.
And there are so many
amazing experiences
we had, just amazing phenomena.
Because, remember, the
interstellar civilizations
can be all around us and shifted
beyond the speed of light
in the visible spectrum
and can just pop in.
And the entire person
or craft will just
be there instantaneously.
But you need to have the correct
kind of cameras and operators
in 360 to capture it.
And we've never had that.
We do have some amazing
images and photographs,
but we could have had much more.
>> Where else but Blanca?
I mean, all this
stuff is centered
around this particular mountain.
And we've had everything from
people reporting white buffalos
at high mountain lakes
at almost 12,000 feet.
In 1966, two hunters
saw a platypus
in one of the high
mountain lakes there.
Back in '65, '66,
into '67, there
were reports of these small
10 to 12-foot scout ships
that were flying in
and out of Blanca
and chasing people in the
highway in broad daylight
and dive-bombing cars going
to the great sand dunes.
And of course, the Snippy
case happened right
at the base of there.
And the mountain
is overlooking some
of the meadows that have some
of the earliest known evidence
of humans in North America.
When they did a study
of the great sand dunes,
which is the most mysterious
sand dune desert in the world--
it's by far the highest altitude
desert, sand and desert.
It's 700-feet high sand dunes,
49 square miles of sand.
The sand does not conform to
any of the silica in the valley.
It's a completely
different color.
It has completely different
constituent elements.
After getting to know
the personnel out there
after 10 years, one of the chief
geologists finally told me,
they don't know
how it got there.
And I said, well, why
do you tell people
that prevailing westerly
winds are blowing sand
from the old Rio
Grande and piling up
in the crook in the mountain?
And he goes, well, gotta
tell them something.
But the most mindblowing
thing about the sand dunes
is they did a core sample test.
And they were drilling down
in the very center of the dune
field.
And when they got to the bottom
of the dunes 700 feet down,
they hit wood.
And there's a covered forest
that's covered by the dunes.
And so you have
organic material.
What can you do?
You can date it.
So they carbon-14
dated the wood.
It's only 11,000 years old.
So the dunes only have
been there 11,000 years.
Now how do you have a pile
of sand 49 square miles,
700 feet high, that's been piled
up in less than 12,000 years?
I was a geology minor in school.
I know a little bit
about the subject.
And it is absolutely
inconceivable
that that amount of
sand, even with hurricane
force winds every day,
could pile up that much sand
in such a short period of time.
So I had a physicist
friend of mine.
He called me up all
excited one day.
And he goes, I figured out
how the dunes got there.
I said, what are
you talking about?
He goes, well, we know the
Sangres are filled with quartz.
There's huge caverns probably
filled with quartz under there,
right?
And he says, well, it's the
Ant people that supposedly
live underneath the ground
that take care of the Indians.
When the Earth's going
to cleanse itself,
they go through the sipapu,
the place of emergence.
One of those entrances is
right there by the sand dunes.
And they go down there.
And the Ant people
are making more room
by carving up the quartz,
powdering it up, and throwing
it out the back door.
And that's where the
glass is coming from.
It's the largest pile of
pure glass on the planet.
It's 98% pure silica.
And if you look at any other
sand on beaches and stuff,
most of it's silica.
That's the primary
constituent element.
You can see lightning
between dunes.
There's supposedly heard
of these web-footed horses
that have these huge hooves
that have been grown out.
And they're like
paddles, and they're
able to gallop to the sand.
The pioneers reported them.
Well, there's tons of caverns.
Supposedly, there's a
military satellite system
called DUMPSTER.
I forget what the
acronym stands for.
But I've heard versions
that it can map 500
feet into the Earth's bedrock.
And I've heard other versions
it can go as much as a half
a mile.
Now I don't know what
kind of technology
it would take to
have that capability,
but based on the
research that I did,
it went operational
in the mid '90s.
And the first place that they
mapped was the Giza Plateau.
The second place they mapped
was the Yucatan Peninsula.
And the third place they mapped
was the southern Sangre de
Cristo Mountains.
So it kind of makes me
wonder, maybe there's
some element of the military,
maybe government, Department
of Defense, somewhere
that knows something
about what's going on
underground in the Rocky
Mountains.
There's a lot of
information that I've
uncovered that would
suggest that there's
an ancient antediluvian tunnel
system in the southwest.
In fact, the ex-postmaster
of the Los Alamos Lab,
his son was my guitar player.
And during the summers, he would
work as a mail delivery guy
underground in the tunnels
at Los Alamos on a bicycle.
And his grandfather, or
the postmaster's father,
was an underground
demolitions expert.
And he helped expand the lab
underground in the late '50s
and early '60s.
The military uses the San Luis
Valley as a social petri dish.
To give you an
example, I'm going down
Highway 17 pretty late at night,
about 10 o'clock at night.
I see a row of flashing
lights about 300 feet across,
sequence.
I immediately stop, get
my night vision out.
It's three C-130s, cargo
planes, wingtip to wingtip.
And they had
sequenced the lights
down the leading edge of
all three planes' wings
in perfect synchronization.
Now I was just close
enough to hear them.
The wind was going
the other way.
If I had been two or
three miles further away--
they were really quiet
for C-130s, number one.
But if I had been any
further distance away,
I would've seen the
mother ship flying by.
Now what the heck are they using
C-130s, conventional craft,
and putting unconventional
lighting arrays on there?
They're trying to
see who sees it.
Do they report it
to the sheriff?
Is it reported as a UFO?
Does that report make
it to the local paper?
Is there any spin on that?
I've had cases where
people are driving along.
And two about 30-foot
perfect triangles
fly right in front of their
car, followed by F-16s.
And they said these
were not planes.
They were holes in the sky.
They were blacker than black.
They looked like
holes flying by,
one right after another,
with F-16s hauling ass,
right on their tail.
So there's a lot of military
activity that goes on there.
So it's-- I don't know.
That place is just--
it's so bizarre,
some of the things
that were going on.
>> What's really going on in
the San Luis Valley may never be
fully understood.
Because of its
geographical isolation,
it's a place where
it's easy to hide.
Possibly both the US military
and off-planet forces
are occupying areas
within the large valley.
Like the Bermuda Triangle
and other haunted landscapes,
the mysterious
valley only proves
that nature's way is often
difficult for we humans
to understand.
In our next episode
we'll look at the control
grid of our planet and how we
can break free of the matrix.